## 服务发现
在 Prometheus 的配置中，一个最重要的概念就是数据源 target，而数据源的配置主要分为静态配置和动态发现, 大致为以下几类：
- `static_configs`: 静态服务发现
- dns_sd_configs: DNS 服务发现
- file_sd_configs: 文件服务发现
- consul_sd_configs: Consul 服务发现
- serverset_sd_configs: Serverset 服务发现
- nerve_sd_configs: Nerve 服务发现
- marathon_sd_configs: Marathon 服务发现
- `kubernetes_sd_configs`: Kubernetes 服务发现
    - `Kubernetes SD configurations` allow retrieving scrape targets from Kubernetes' REST API and always staying synchronized with the cluster state.
    - https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#%3Ckubernetes_sd_config%3E
        - node
            - __meta_kubernetes_node_name: The name of the node object.
            - __meta_kubernetes_node_label_<labelname>: Each label from the node object.
            - __meta_kubernetes_node_annotation_<annotationname>: Each annotation from the node object.
            - __meta_kubernetes_node_address_<address_type>: The first address for each node address type, if it exists.
        - service
            - __meta_kubernetes_namespace: The namespace of the service object.
            - __meta_kubernetes_service_name: The name of the service object.
            - __meta_kubernetes_service_label_<labelname>: The label of the service object.
            - __meta_kubernetes_service_annotation_<annotationname>: The annotation of the service object.
            - __meta_kubernetes_service_port_name: Name of the service port for the target.
            - __meta_kubernetes_service_port_number: Number of the service port for the target.
            - __meta_kubernetes_service_port_protocol: Protocol of the service port for the target.

        - pod
            - __meta_kubernetes_namespace: The namespace of the pod object.
            - __meta_kubernetes_pod_name: The name of the pod object.
            - __meta_kubernetes_pod_ip: The pod IP of the pod object.
            - __meta_kubernetes_pod_label_<labelname>: The label of the pod object.
            - __meta_kubernetes_pod_annotation_<annotationname>: The annotation of the pod object.
            - __meta_kubernetes_pod_container_name: Name of the container the target address points to.
            - __meta_kubernetes_pod_container_port_name: Name of the container port.
            - __meta_kubernetes_pod_container_port_number: Number of the container port.
            - __meta_kubernetes_pod_container_port_protocol: Protocol of the container port.
            - __meta_kubernetes_pod_ready: Set to true or false for the pod's ready state.
            - __meta_kubernetes_pod_node_name: The name of the node the pod is scheduled onto.
            - __meta_kubernetes_pod_host_ip: The current host IP of the pod object.
            - __meta_kubernetes_pod_uid: The UID of the pod object.
            - __meta_kubernetes_pod_controller_kind: Object kind of the pod controller.
            - __meta_kubernetes_pod_controller_name: Name of the pod controller.
        - endpoints
            - __meta_kubernetes_namespace: The namespace of the endpoints object.
            - __meta_kubernetes_endpoints_name: The names of the endpoints object.
            - For all targets discovered directly from the endpoints list (those not additionally inferred from underlying pods), the following labels are attached:
                - __meta_kubernetes_endpoint_ready: Set to true or false for the endpoint's ready state.
                - __meta_kubernetes_endpoint_port_name: Name of the endpoint port.
                - __meta_kubernetes_endpoint_port_protocol: Protocol of the endpoint port.
                - __meta_kubernetes_endpoint_address_target_kind: Kind of the endpoint address target.
                - __meta_kubernetes_endpoint_address_target_name: Name of the endpoint address target.

        - ingress
            - __meta_kubernetes_namespace: The namespace of the ingress object.
            - __meta_kubernetes_ingress_name: The name of the ingress object.
            - __meta_kubernetes_ingress_label_<labelname>: The label of the ingress object.
            - __meta_kubernetes_ingress_annotation_<annotationname>: The annotation of the ingress object.
            - __meta_kubernetes_ingress_scheme: Protocol scheme of ingress, https if TLS config is set. Defaults to http.
            - __meta_kubernetes_ingress_path: Path from ingress spec. Defaults to /.

- gce_sd_configs: GCE 服务发现
- ec2_sd_configs: EC2 服务发现
- openstack_sd_configs: OpenStack 服务发现
- azure_sd_configs: Azure 服务发现
- triton_sd_configs: Triton 服务发现
它们具体使用以及配置模板，请参考服务发现配置模板。
它们中最重要的，也是使用最广泛的应该是 static_configs, 其实那些动态类型都可以看成是某些通用业务使用静态服务封装的结果。


https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#%3Ctls_config

https://songjiayang.gitbooks.io/prometheus/content/configuration/server_discovery.html